<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.9.4
<SEQUENCE>16
<FILENAME>v69729ex10-9_4.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.9.4
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                                EXHIBIT 10.9.4



                                AMENDMENT TO THE
                             WASHINGTON MUTUAL, INC.
                     RETIREMENT SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE SEPTEMBER 30, 1998



        THIS AMENDMENT to the Washington Mutual, Inc. Retirement Savings and
Investment Plan (the "RSIP") is made by Washington Mutual, Inc. (the "Company")
on this 21st day of December, 1999.

                                    RECITALS:

        WHEREAS, the Company maintains the RSIP for the benefit of its eligible
employees;

        WHEREAS, the Company has merged with H. F. Ahmanson & Company
("Ahmanson");

        WHEREAS, the Ahmanson Advantage Account (the "Ahmanson Plan") has been
merged into the RSIP;

        WHEREAS, the Company desires to amend the RSIP to provide for (i)
participation therein of former Ahmanson employees hired by the Company, (ii)
the preservation of certain features of the Ahmanson Plan, (iii) the
clarification of the matching contribution provisions, and (iv) other minor
clarifications or changes to reflect statutory amendments; and

        WHEREAS, the Company may amend the RSIP at any time pursuant to Article
XVI thereof;

        NOW, THEREFORE, the RSIP is hereby amended as follows:

        1. Section 2.13 is restated in its entirety to read as set forth below:

           2.13 COMPENSATION.

                        (a) SCOPE OF PROVISION. Compensation as defined in this
                Section 2.13 shall apply for purposes of determining:

                        (1) The identity of Highly Compensated Employees;

                        (2) The limitation on Annual Additions;

                        (3) The Actual Deferral Percentage;

                        (4) The Actual Matching Percentage; and

                        (5) The Top Heavy Plan provisions.

                        (b) INCLUSIONS. A Participant's Compensation consists of
                the Participant's wages, salaries, fees for personal services,

<PAGE>   2

                commissions, production incentive compensation, bonuses and
                other amounts received (without regard to whether or not an
                amount is paid in cash) for personal services actually rendered
                in the course of employment with an Employer as an Employee and
                to the extent that the amounts are includible in gross income.

                        (c) EXCLUSIONS. A Participant's Compensation does not
                include:

                        (1) Severance Pay;

                        (2) Moving expenses;

                        (3) Long-term disability insurance payments;

                        (4) Nonqualified deferred compensation;

                        (5) Compensatory time;

                        (6) Fringe benefits or amounts attributable to any
                            employee benefit plan which are not already excluded
                            under (1)-(5) above;

                        (7) Employer contributions (i) to a plan of deferred
                            compensation to the extent such contributions are
                            not included in the gross income of the Participant
                            for the taxable year in which contributed; or (ii)
                            on behalf of the Participant to a simplified
                            employee pension plan to the extent such
                            contributions are deductible under the Code;

                        (8) Any distributions from a plan of deferred
                            compensation whether or not such distributions are
                            includible in the gross income of the Participant
                            when distributed (except for amounts received from
                            an unfunded, nonqualified plan in the year such
                            amounts are includible in the Employee's gross
                            income);

                        (9) Amounts realized from the sale, exchange or other
                            disposition of stock acquired under a qualified
                            stock option;

                       (10) Amounts not otherwise described in this section
                            2.13(c) that receive special tax benefits; and

                       (11) Contributions made by an Employer (whether or not
                            under a salary reduction agreement) towards the
                            purchase of a 403(b) annuity contract, regardless of
                            whether the contributions are excludible from the
                            gross income of the Participant.

                        (d) ADDITIONAL COMPUTATION RULES REGARDING DETERMINATION
                OF THE LIMITATION ON ANNUAL ADDITIONS. For purposes of
                determining the limitations on Annual Additions, (i) amounts
                realized from the exercise of a nonqualified stock option or
                when restricted stock (or property) becomes freely transferable
                or no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, and
                (ii) Compensation, as defined herein, taken into account for a
                Limitation


<PAGE>   3

                Year, is the Compensation actually paid or made available to the
                Participant during such year, as well as amounts not included in
                taxable income by reason of sections 125 or 402(e)(3) of the
                Code.

                        (e) ADDITIONAL COMPUTATION RULES REGARDING DETERMINATION
                OF IDENTITY OF HIGHLY COMPENSATED EMPLOYEES, THE ACTUAL DEFERRAL
                PERCENTAGE, THE ACTUAL MATCHING PERCENTAGE AND THE TOP HEAVY
                PROVISIONS. For the purposes of determining the identity of
                Highly Compensated Employees, the Actual Deferral Percentage,
                the Actual Matching Percentage and the Top Heavy Plan
                provisions, Compensation shall also include any amounts excluded
                from gross income of an Employee under sections 125, 402(e)(3),
                402(h)(1)(B), or 403(b) of the Code.

                        (f) STATUTORY LIMITS. Effective for Plan Years beginning
                before January 1, 1994, Compensation for all purposes in excess
                of $200,000 (as adjusted at the same time and the same manner as
                under section 415(d) of the Code) shall be disregarded.
                Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 1994,
                Compensation for all purposes in excess of $150,000 (adjusted as
                provided in section 401(a)(17)(B) of the Code) shall be
                disregarded.

        2. Section 2.41 of the RSIP is amended by a new paragraph (27), to read
as set forth below:

                        (27) Eligible Employees who are credited with Service
                        for service with H. F. Ahmanson & Company or its
                        affiliates may first enter the Plan on July 1, 1999.

        3. Section 3.3(a) is amended in its entirety to read as set forth below:

                        (a) If he was a Participant prior to his separation from
                Service, the Plan Entry Date which is coincident with or which
                next follows the day on which he performs his first Hour of
                service as a result of his return to Service, or

        4. Section 4.1(b) is amended by the addition of the following new
paragraph at the end of the existing provision:

                The foregoing notwithstanding, the Matching Contribution shall
                be made on behalf of each eligible Participant who is making
                Salary Deferral Contributions at a rate of less than 3 percent
                of such Participant's Considered Compensation in the percentage
                specified by the Employer. The Matching Contribution made on
                behalf of each eligible Participant who is making Salary
                Deferral


<PAGE>   4

                Contributions at a rate of 3 percent or more of such
                Participant's Considered Compensation shall be bifurcated as
                follows:

                        (1) At the time periodic Matching Contributions are made
                        during the year, such Participant shall receive a
                        Matching Contribution in the amount specified with
                        respect to a Salary Deferral Contribution equal to 3
                        percent of the Participant's Considered Compensation;
                        and

                        (2) As of the end of the year, any such Participant who
                        is actively employed as of the last day of the year
                        shall receive Matching Contributions with respect to his
                        or her Salary Deferral Contributions in excess of 3
                        percent of his or her Considered Compensation, in the
                        percentage specified by the Employer, to the extent such
                        Matching Contributions do not exceed the applicable
                        limitation of the Plan and the Code.

        3. Section 7.5 of the Plan is amended by the addition of new paragraph
(h) to read as set forth below:

                        (h) Each Employee who has an account under the Plan
                attributable to such Employee's participation in a defined
                contribution plan maintained by H. F. Ahmanson & Company or its
                affiliates shall be vested in such account according to the
                following schedule:

                        (1) Ahmanson Advantage Account - Company Matching
                        Account:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                            Years of Vesting Service                 Percent Vested
                            ------------------------                 --------------
<S>                                                                      <C>
                                        1                                  0%
                                        2                                 40%
                                        3                                 60%
                                        4                                 80%
                                        5                                100%
</TABLE>

                        (2) Coast Match Account: 100% Vested

                        (3) HSB/Coast Rollover Account: 100% Vested

                The foregoing notwithstanding, each former employee of H. F.
                Ahmanson & Company or who terminated employment with H. F.
                Ahmanson & Company or the Company between March 17, 1998, and
                March 31, 2000 shall be fully vested in any account maintained
                on behalf of such former employee under the Plan as a result of
                the merger of the Ahmanson Advantage Account into the Plan.


<PAGE>   5

        4. Effective January 1, 2000, Section 8.1(d) is amended by the addition
of new subparagraph (6), to read as set forth below:

                        (6) An active Employee who commenced receipt of his or
                        her Vested Accrued Benefit pursuant to a superseded
                        definition of Required Commencement Date, but whose
                        Required Commencement Date pursuant to the version of
                        Section 2.49 in effect as of January 1, 2000 has not
                        occurred, may suspend distribution of his or her Vested
                        Accrued Benefit until a subsequent Required Commencement
                        Date. Any Employee's election to suspend distribution of
                        a Vested Accrued Benefit pursuant to this Section
                        8.1(d)(6) must be made pursuant to a one-time
                        irrevocable election which is executed and will take
                        effect during such Employee's active employment with the
                        Company and satisfies such other rules and procedures as
                        the Administration Committee shall require.

        5. Article IX is amended by addition of a new Section 9.8, to read as
set forth below:

        9.8 ACCOUNTS RELATING TO BOWERY SAVINGS PLAN. Amounts maintained in
        accounts under the Plan attributable to rollover accounts maintained
        under the Bowery Savings Plan may be withdrawn by Employees in
        accordance with the provisions with respect to inservice withdrawals of
        such accounts contained in the Bowery Savings Plan as in effect on
        December 31, 1998.

        6. Section 1 of Appendix A is amended by removing the word "and" at the
end of subsection c, by replacing the period at the end of subsection d with
"; and", and by the addition of a new subsection e, to read as set forth below:

                e. H.F. Ahmanson & Company.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, an authorized officer of the
Company, has executed this amendment on the day and year first written above.


                                            WASHINGTON MUTUAL, INC.


                                            By:________________________________
                                            Its:_______________________________




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
